your home's doors are its main moving
parts they open to allow movement
throughout the house and close to
provide physical security and seal out
the outside elements these important
seals are made to open and close at a
touch of a hand thousands of times a
year
doors are relatively simple mechanical
devices that consists of a main body a
locking device hinges and in the case of
exterior doors weather stripping though
there is a wide variety of door styles
and sizes such varieties can be broken
down into two main categories hung doors
and sliding doors single and double hung
doors open either in or out with hinges
on the left to right side sliding doors
move horizontally on a metal track
exterior doors should fit properly the
door should be straight when it is
closed and there should be a uniformed
gap between the door and the jamb of
about an eighth of an inch
check to see that the door works
properly both opening and closing
smoothly
doors should not bind or drag when fully
opened or closed weatherstripping should
be installed around all exterior doors
in the doors jamming threshold make sure
that it is not missing and that it
properly seals the door when closed
weatherstripping if it is missing or old
can be replaced easily wooden doors
should be sealed and free of cracks if
open cracks are present it will allow
water from do and rain to soak into the
wood causing it to warp out of shape the
door may then become bound in its own
Jam another item of concern is that in
some tract homes the wooden front door
is exposed to direct sunlight throughout
the day this causes the exposed to areas
of the door to heat at temperatures
above 180 degrees regardless of the
quality of the wooden door this will
eventually ruin it over time this
situation may be remedied by the
complete replacement of the wooden door
to a door made of composite material
metal doors can oxidize or rust causing
leaks to develop metal doors should be
inspected around their corners for these
types of problems if problems are
discovered they should be fixed promptly
exterior doors commonly include a window
arrangement doors that have windows
installed should be inspected to see if
the glass is properly sealed and is not
rattle when the doors opened or closed
excessive vibrations can cause the glass
to become loose and start leaking